[WHOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Today on "Cosmic Disclosure,"
we are with Richard Doty,
a retired Special Agent who
served in the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
And was intimately involved
with UFO/ET-related content.
Welcome, Richard.
>> Thank you.
>> Tell us about what you
know about Project Serpo.
>> Well, Project Serpo actually
is project Crystal Knight In
2005, I was in a funeral
at Washington Dc,
when a Colonel came
to me and said Rick,
what do you know about
Project Crystal Knight?
And I said, I don't think
I've ever heard of it.
What is it?
And he told me it was
an exchange program
between the Eben's of the
craft that crashed in 1947
and us and our astronauts.
I said, no, I never
heard of that.
But I'd be interested in
knowing more about it.
So we went into another room.
After we left the funeral
parlor with the reception,
we went into another
room at a hotel.
And he told me about it.
And I said, boy, that
doesn't sound right.
I certainly wasn't around
back in the '50s or '60s,
but what happened?
And he went on to tell me that
when the Eben craft crashed
at Roswell, they found it.
They had an energy
device in there.
And we knew that energy
device because we still
have that energy device.
But the Eben-- the Eben One told
us there was a communications
device in the craft.
And the communications device
could help him notify his home
planet to come get him.
Come help me out.
And so over a period
of about 10 years,
it took the US government
to create or manufacture
a communications system
that could send signals
to this Serpo, which was the
name of the planet the US
government named in Zeta
Reticuli star system.
Some 40-- about 39.5
light years away.
And we did it.
We notified them.
And there was a project to
learn the Eben language.
Now Eben One started us on that.
It was a very difficult
language because it was tones.
language to learn.
But he wrote down his
alphabet so we at least
had his alphabet.
All the symbols in his alphabet.
But we, as a pretty
intelligent group of people,
figured it out.
And we were able to communicate
with the other planet.
Now this is what this
Colonel is telling me.
Now in October of
2005, Victor Martinez,
he had an email stream that
he used for a number of years.
A number of people
on that stream.
He contacted me
and he said, I have
this guy that's contacted
me and said he was with DIA.
And he wanted to start
releasing information
about a Project Crystal Knight.
Do you know anything
about it, Rick?
And I said, you
know what, Victor?
I do know something about it.
But I don't know if
it's real or if it's
some kind of military
project that had happened.
An exercise.
I mean, I could think of
a lot of different things.
>> Right.
>> And he said, no, no, no.
I know it's real because I've
seen some evidence of it.
I said, what kind of
evidence did you see?
He said, I saw
pictures of the planet.
I said, you saw
pictures of what planet?
He said, Serpo.
I said who showed them to you?
He said this person that I
want to introduce you to.
So I flew out to--
I was still working
for Austin, Texas
and I flew out to
California, Oceanside.
Met with Victor and then, I met
with this former DIA official
named Joseph Yeager.
Joseph knew me.
I didn't know him.
He knew of me.
Knew of my time in OSI
and US Intelligence.
He had worked for DIA.
He was at the, we call
it, the no hat office
in the UFO desk in DIA.
And we call it no hat because
their heads are so big,
their heads wouldn't fit.
It was a joke.
>> Sure.
>> Anyways, he said,
are you ready for this--
to hear about this project?
And I said, well,
is it for real?
He said, yeah, it's for real.
I said, well, you got any
documents to prove it?
He says, come to my house.
And we were at a hotel
meeting at some--
in Oceanside, California.
So we went to his house.
He lived in a really nice house.
He had a cellar.
And there's not too many places
that have cellars anymore,
but he had a cellar in
his house in California.
And we went in there and he
had these safes along the wall.
Probably, a dozen safes.
And they were
GAS-approved safes.
So they were GAS safes.
And having worked
in a government,
you how secure they are.
>> Right.
Yes.
>> He opened one up and
brought a document over to me.
Laid it down.
It was an Air
Force OSI document.
I looked at that document and,
of course, I recognized being I
had been in the OSI.
He said, read that.
It was a real thick document.
So I spent the next
probably, 30 or 35 minutes
going through this document.
I said, holy cow.
I spent all those years in OSI
and I never heard about this.
So I said, so it's for real?
He said, it's
absolutely for real.
Then he started pulling out
other things and showing us--
showing me and Victor.
And I said, well, why
do you have it here?
This should be in a file
of a DIA headquarters.
How did you get it?
He said, well, I can't
answer that question.
He said, and if you turn
me over to the feds,
those documents won't be here.
I said, I'm not going to
turn you over to the feds.
I said, is this
still classified?
He said, I don't know.
And I don't really care.
I want it out in the public.
>> So what was the most
powerful thing you read in that
document, over that 35 minutes?
What really shocked
you the most?
Beside you not knowing about it.
>> Well, what shocked me was how
they selected the astronauts.
>> How did they?
>> Well, they selected--
it took them months
and months and months,
but they got people that--
they had to get specialists.
Doctors and other specialists.
But they went out
and found people
within the military that
were orphans and didn't
have any family members
and weren't married.
Now that's a difficult
task, even in 1960
when this was occurring.
But they found them.
They found, I think, 100 or
so and they narrowed it down.
They put these astronauts
through an enormous amount
of training.
In reading and then
listening to a tape recording
later of all the training
they went through,
I mean Special Forces SEALs
wouldn't have even gone
through this kind of stuff.
But they had to prepare them
for a journey from Earth,
39 light years away
to a foreign planet.
How do you prepare
somebody for that?
>> Right.
>> Well, they tried it.
And they did it.
I mean, according to
them, they did it.
And that was the most
fascinating thing--
how they chose they 12.
Now the controversy
is, according to him,
there were 12 men.
According to this other person
that became involved later,
said no.
There were 10 men, two women.
There were two women that went.
One was a linguist.
She learned the Eben language.
So there was some controversy
there whether there were
two women or not two women.
But anyways, they were trained.
They were set up
to go on a mission.
And the craft that--
the Eben's were supposed
to come in 1964 to White Sands
and Holloman Air Force base,
but that blew up because
the one Eben craft
didn't land at Holloman.
It landed near Socorro and that
was Lonnie Zamora incident,
in 1964.
When they eventually found
the right landing space,
in White Sands, it was
decided that the Eben's
weren't ready for it.
So then they scheduled for 1965.
And they were going to
leave out of Groom Lake--
Area 51.
And the craft-- a
huge craft landed.
About 40 tons of material
that we brought on with us--
the Ebens took.
And they went on their
voyage, the 12, to Serpo.
>> Did we have any of
their races stay back?
>> We have an exchange program.
One ET stayed.
Eben Two they called him.
Eben Two stayed and our 12 went.
And we had the
communications device
that we could still communicate
with our people on Serpo.
We were communicating
with them, I
think, once every seven
months or something like that.
It took, like, 40 hours
for the signal to get back.
Something to that effect.
But we still
communicated with them.
And they eventually adjusted
to the life on Serpo.
One of the problems they
had up there was two suns.
There's a binary planet.
So there was never any darkness.
It was always daylight.
No they took
sunglasses with them.
But the radiation
exposure was higher there.
The Ebens were accustomed to it.
They weren't.
So every one of them had
a radiation problem--
radiation sickness
when they got back.
And that was one
of the problems.
>> So while you're in
Joseph Yeager's cellar,
looking at all this information,
you told me that there was
actually pictures he
had of the planet.
Could you describe what
you saw in these pictures?
>> The crew-- the 12 person
astronaut crew took a lot
of cameras with them.
So they took a lot of
photography, photos.
And he showed us pictures of
some-- he didn't show us a lot.
But he showed us
some of the pictures.
Pictures of the crew when
they arrived on Serpo.
And pictures of the
area that they stayed in
for the first year or so.
Pretty desert-like.
>> Desert-like.
>> It was pretty desert-like.
But there were different
areas of the planet
that was less desert than
where they had landed.
Where they landed was the
central home area of the Ebens
Over the next
year, they realized
that they were getting
a lot of radiation.
And the heat there was a
tremendous amount of heat.
So they Ebens decided
to move them north.
The northern part of the planet
was cooler-- a lot cooler.
In fact, they
actually had seen snow
on that planet, which
was really, something
of an anomaly.
But they moved north by
some hundreds of miles.
And they set up camp-- the
Ebens did-- for them up there.
And it was a lot cooler,
by 30 or 40 degrees.
It was still in the 60s and 70s.
But they were more
comfortable there,
in the northern
part of the planet.
And those pictures, we had
pictures of the northern area.
They had some vegetation, trees.
They had a river--
looked like a river.
>> Was there an atmosphere,
like a blue atmosphere?
>> There was an atmosphere
that was consistent with Earth.
It had more of an oxygen
content than Earth,
but they adjusted to it.
They had these--
I can't remember what
they called them--
but they put these masks on
that blocked some of the oxygen
that they were breathing
because it was a higher oxygen.
But eventually, the scientists
with them told them--
or the doctors with them--
we can adjust.
We just have to go out for
a longer period of time.
And they eventually adjusted
over a period of years.
They just adjusted to there.
But the one thing they
really had problems with
were the two suns and the heat.
The daytime heat was a
constant 115, 120 degrees.
>> Were there buildings?
Were they underground?
What did the
buildings look like?
The structures?
>> The Ebens lived in almost,
looked like adobe buildings.
Clay or some type of
an adobe building.
The crew stayed in an
underground bunker.
And I'm not sure
if the Ebens built
that or it was already there.
But it was cooler
the first year.
And, of course, then they
moved north after that.
And they didn't have a problem
with the heat after that.
>> Besides the vegetation, were
there any animal life or mammal
life other than
what we see here?
>> Yeah.
There were creatures
on the planet.
The crew encountered--
they were out exploring.
And every time they
went out, they always
had Ebens with them.
And we could communicate
because some of the Ebens
spoke English.
In a broken manner, but
they still could speak it.
And we had, of
course, two linguists
that could speak some Eben.
It was still difficult for
the Ebens to understand.
We understood the Ebens better
than the Ebens understood us
in their language.
But they traveled-- the crew
traveled all over the planet.
They encountered creatures
that looked like snakes.
That were hostile.
Some of were not hostile.
They found some animals
that looked like armadillos.
They found this
huge, huge creature
that kind of looked like
a buffalo, in a way,
but was not hostile.
They found some smaller insects.
There were some
occasions, according
to this report, where there was
some hostilities that occurred.
One particular one was when
one of the crew members died.
They Ebens took the body.
The commander, he said,
I want the body back.
And they said, no.
You can't have him back.
So there was some hostilities.
And the commander
ordered weapons
to be issued to everyone.
We're going to go
get our body back.
Well, there was one Eben--
a female Eben that
was a translator
that defused everything.
She was a mediator.
And according this
report, every time
there was some kind of
hostilery or argument,
she would mediate
it and settle it.
So she actually
settled this problem
before they actually had
to break out the weapons.
>> Do they know why
this astronaut died?
>> I'm sure it said in there.
I'm not--
>> There was two
astronauts that died.
>> Yes.
There was two
astronauts that died.
One died in a--
they had these flying machines
like little helicopters,
but they were more
advanced than that.
And apparently, he
tried to fly one
and he got killed in a crash.
And that was five or six
years into the mission.
>> Were they venturing not
only on the planet, but off,
planet near planet areas?
>> No.
They stayed there
on that planet.
>> The Ebens wouldn't let them.
Yeah.
There was dangers that the
Ebens kept telling them.
Oh, it's dangerous if
you go here and go here.
And they didn't
really know what.
But one of the thing that's
interesting in this report
was that the body of
the American that died
was taken into this building.
And eventually, this
mediator allowed
negotiated two of the
Americans-- the commander
and the assistant commander--
to go into this building
to get the body.
And they were going
to bury the body.
And they saw all these vats.
And they were asking
the interpreter,
what are these vats?
And when they got
up, that American
was in one of these vats.
He said, we're cloning races.
>> Amazing.
Were there other
races there, Rick,
that they were exposed
to besides the Ebens.
>> According to the commander,
there was many different races
that they were cloning.
They were doing biological
experiments on all of them.
And that's what really
upset the commander.
He said you're not going to
do on my crew member's body.
But it's something like a formal
procedure that the Ebens do.
One of our people die,
we do the same thing.
But the head Eben said, OK.
If you don't want it done,
you can take the body
and we'll have a burial.
And they did they
did a burial for him.
>> Were the Ebens spiritual
at all or religious?
Did they mention
anything about--
did they have a deity?
>> Yes, they did.
They worshiped this deity
every day at a certain time.
There was a time dial--
like an old time dial in the
village or in the location.
They called it the village.
And when it reached
a certain place,
they would pray or do some
kind of religious service
to their deity.
Now, I don't know that we ever
figured out who the deity was
or whether it was a God or what.
I don't know that, that was
ever mentioned in there.
But our people just
had to go to there--
we couldn't be out when
they were doing it.
We had to-- and it was just
a protocol that, hey, you
can't see us doing this.
So all our people went to their
bunker and stayed a while.
It didn't last very
long, according
to the team commander, who
wrote these transcripts that we
were reading.
>> Did they mention anything
about the food or water?
Or did they just eat their own
food and water they brought?
>> Well, back then,
it was C-rations.
And they brought food with
them-- canned food up.
They eventually just
ate the Eben food.
And they had-- it
was plant-based.
Almost all plant-based.
They had some meat
that tasted very funny,
but they adjusted to it.
I think they said after
a period of a few months,
when their bodies were
adjusting to this food,
they were all right.
But before that, they were
getting diarrhea and problems
with the intestinal tract.
But eventually, the body
adjusted to these plant-based
and maybe, animal.
They had some kind of animal
that they used to eat.
>> Rick, how big was this
planet compared to Earth?
And what was the
gravitational pull on that?
>> The gravity was a little bit
different, but they adjusted.
They wore plates
in their boots--
military boots.
And they adjusted to gravity.
Amazingly, the team
commander said we adjusted.
How we adjusted, I don't know.
But we adjusted.
They adjusted to a lot
of different things.
The climate, the other
things, they adjusted to.
But they just adjusted
to the gravity.
The planet was a little
bit smaller than Earth.
Not much.
And I don't remember the
diameter or the particulars.
>> What was the
culture there like?
Do they have restaurants
and bars they could go to?
Were there athletic clubs?
Were there spas or pools
that the astronauts
could mingle in with the
other extraterrestrials?
>> No.
Nothing like this.
Everyone looked the same.
All Ebens look the same.
They all lived in
these adobe houses.
And they had their
family there--
male, female, and children.
The crew never saw more
than two children to anyone.
They weren't allowed in any
one of the Eben residence.
There was no-- everyone ate
at a facility- one facility,
like a dining hall or something.
>> Right, cafeteria
>> They didn't eat.
They didn't cook their own food.
Everyone went to one place.
Everyone was rigidly controlled.
The team commander said they had
something like a police force,
but there was no
hostilities, whatsoever.
Never saw any fights or any
reasons for the police force
to act.
In fact, he said the police
force were out of sight.
If something was to
happen, they would show up.
And they did have a military.
They did have an Air Force.
They did have a very
sophisticated aircrafts
and flying objects--
they call them-- and these
little helicopters that
would fly any place around.
But they never saw
any hostilities
in all the time they were there.
No fights.
Nothing.
The one time the
police showed up
was when the team
commander was going
to get the guns to
go get the body back.
There was some security forces
came up and they had weapons.
But they didn't bother him.
They were just there.
The team commander said
they were just present.
Just showed their presence
like, here we are.
Maybe you shouldn't
mess with us.
Something to that
effect, that way.
But it was a unique system.
Everybody was the same.
Everybody went and did this--
eat together.
>> How beautiful.
>> They played this game
that he was talking about,
that was something like soccer,
but it was totally different.
I mean, it was different.
The closest thing
they could relate to.
And they would laugh and they
would have fun with this game.
Well, when the team members went
out there and played football
or softball-- because they
bought that equipment with
them--
the Ebens thought
that was amazing.
They were trying to teach
the Ebens how of play.
But in the Eben game, you
didn't catch anything.
You let me hit the ground.
So in softball, the
Ebens would just
watch the ball hit the
ground and pick it up.
Oh, no, no, no.
You're supposed to catch it.
And it was difficult, according
to the team commander.
But they tried.
And They worked with them.
They lived there for 13 years.
Got along.
>> What propulsion systems did
they have to travel 39 light
years, in just 10 months?
>> We wish we knew.
I don't think they
figured it out.
I don't remember a lot of
technology being in the report.
The team commander
figured it was the folding
the space from one
point to another,
enabling them to
get from another.
But this commander detailed the
trip in very, very detail form.
Articulated how sick
they got from the trip.
How disoriented they
were in the craft.
Didn't know if they were
standing up or upside down.
And the Ebens would
come in during the trip
and they were strapped to seats.
And they would give
them this like,
he referred to it
as like oatmeal.
Spoonfuls of it.
And it immediately settled them.
It settled their stomach
and settled them.
And they couldn't understand
how the Ebens would
know to give this to a human.
Because a doctor on board
had other anti-sickness,
anti-motion sickness medication
he could give his crew.
But it wasn't working.
But the Eben gave
him was working.
>> Were there other countries
involved with the group
of astronauts?
Or was it just the
United States, Americans?
>> Just the United States.
Just the United States.
>> Were you aware of other
countries finding out about
this?
Were they concerned?
>> The Russians found out about
it later, some years later.
>> Now did they do this also,
with the Russians and other
countries?
>> We think they did.
We really think they did it
with them and the Japanese.
>> What about the Germans?
>> I never heard anything
about the Germans.
But I heard about--
>> Japanese,
>> The Japanese
and the Russians.
But I don't have any
firsthand knowledge of it.
I've heard it.
Read it.
But whether it actually
happened or not, I don't know.
>> So what happened to all those
astronauts that went to Zeta
Reticuli?
Like, what happened
to them to this day?
>> Well, they're all dead now.
>> Right.
>> The ones that came back, they
were suffering from radiation
sickness.
They got cancer of
the skin or lungs
or other types of cancers.
One lived-- the last
one to live was actually
the team commander.
He lived for a number
of years, but then he
died about six or
seven years ago.
And he was the one that spoke
at the private UFO convention.
Wendelle Stevens got
him to speak at it.
>> What was his name?
McKeever.
His last name was McKeever.
And he was an amazing speaker.
He spoke from the heart.
He really, really
valued the Ebens.
They were so tender-hearted.
They were compassionate.
He saw them all in their best.
He never saw them in the worst.
Even when our team
members got so upset
with certain other things
that were occurring,
that there were confrontations
between the Americans
and the Ebens, the
Ebens never got upset.
There was always a mediation.
They always tried to, let's
just settle this down.
You're our guests
here and we'll just--
And they always gave.
He said almost every time, the
Ebens gave in to the Americans.
Not every time, like
when they wanted
to visit the structure
or the homes of the--
no.
That's not going to happen.
And they warned them
not to go in there.
And one tried and
he was escorted out.
And please don't
do that anymore.
But they visited their
industrial center.
There was an industrial center.
Not in the village,
but some distance away.
And all their industry was in
an area, maybe, 10 or 12 miles.
They made the food,
They made the aircrafts.
They made-- anything
that they needed
was made in this
industrial complex.
>> Did they grow their food?
Or a 3D print it?
Or maybe make it by
some other modality?
>> I don't remember.
I think they grew most of it
and there was some canning.
There was a facility they
used to make other food.
The food lacked taste.
The first thing
they ran out when
they started eating the Eben
food was salt and pepper.
And I think they took some
other stuff with them--
Tabasco sauce, probably, because
that was in the C-rations
even back then.
But they ran out of all of that
because the Ebens' food didn't
have any taste.
But they developed a way-- the
ingenuity-- while they were up
in the northern
part of the planet,
they found a plant
they could chew on
and it was mint-flavored.
Well, they asked the
Ebens, is this good?
Ebens said, yeah.
It won't hurt you.
The Ebens made
something out of it.
And then they determined
if they heated it,
it would taste differently.
So they made their
own spices, basically.
>> Amazing.
>> Yeah.
>> What was the main
accomplishment of the US
government to do this project?
>> I think it was to
obtain technology--
advanced technology
from the Ebens.
The Ebens are 5,000
years ahead of us
so we could learn a
lot from the Ebens.
The problem is, they
were teaching us,
but it was so far advanced, that
we just couldn't understand it.
Like, the commander told a story
about going in to a school--
and they had schools--
and trying to teach our
algebra to the Eben kids.
And, of course,
it's Greek to them.
They didn't understand
what we were trying to say.
But almost every one of them
realized what they were doing.
Ah, you're trying
to teach us math.
So then, the Ebens
started teaching us
their math, which
was more advanced.
Different symbols and things.
But we, especially the
scientists on the team,
started grasping it.
Oh, my gosh.
Yes, I can understand this now.
I can understand this now.
And here are these scientists
that have doctorate degrees,
are going back to grade
school-- or whatever school,
whatever grade the
Ebens are learning in--
and learning their math.
And learning their culture.
And learning their alphabet.
>> If they were so advanced--
you say 5,000 years more
advanced than we are--
why were they doing things
like growing their own food,
not just replicating it?
I mean, they're cloning bodies.
Obviously, they're
probably cloning food.
>> I don't know that they
could answer that question.
That's a different-- they're
different races of creatures
from another planet.
So very difficult to compare.
And one of the things the
commander told his crew is we
have to forget what
we did on planet Earth
and forget the customs, the
procedures, the courtesies we
did.
This is a new world.
We have to learn
their way of doing it.
And so, their way is maybe
in technology, more advanced,
but in other areas,
maybe it's less advanced.
And another thing they
did, that the commander--
I remember reading about--
was toilets.
They would save their wastes.
And at a certain--
now their days were 36 hours.
At a certain time,
there would be
a vehicle that would come up
and collect all the waste.
And was it-- they
couldn't ever figure out
whether it was being
used for fertilizer
or whether it was being
recycled some way.
Were they using it in some--.
They could never
figure this out.
Because the Ebens
wouldn't allow them to go
to the industrial complex.
They went there to
view it, but they only
went there once or twice.
And when they moved up
north, it was so far away,
they couldn't get to it.
But they don't know
why they did that.
>> Did they collect the human's
waste, too, at the same time?
>> They collected the
human's waste, too.
That's the next thing I
was going to tell you.
They would come down
and ask for our waste
and, I guess, the
commander say, you want it.
You can have it.
And another thing the
Ebens did was they
made toilets that were different
than they had for the crew,
which were more like American
toilets than Eben toilets.
And the commander
says, how would they
know what our toilets are like?
They must have been
visiting Earth a lot.
in the houses--
human houses to see that
we have a toilet like this.
>> Wow.
>> It's amazing.
Amazing.
>> Do you have any information
about the different races
of Ebens?
Because people
are saying they're
being abducted by the
small greys and others
say they're very helpful.
Do you think it's the same race?
>> I don't know that for a fact.
I've never been briefed in.
But I surmise they
were different.
I don't think the Ebens--
>> I agree.
>> Were hostile or
anything like that.
I think the other
greys are different.
Now, what the Ebens
did was they cloned
and they created other
biological entities, even
robotics.
Because the Americans on
the planet saw these robots.
And asked the Ebens,
what are these things?
Oh, they're robots.
Don't worry about them.
They're not going to hurt you.
They're just robots.
We created them.
But they looked like humans.
So they're a robotic biological
entity, but they were a robot.
And so if they
could do that, they
could maybe make something else.
Maybe the other greys.
I don't know.
That's what I think.
And that's only my opinion.
I don't know that for fact.
>> No, I agree with that.
I definitely agree with that.
Did we learn anything from being
with Ebens about our history?
Where we came from?
>> That is an extremely
controversial subject
or question.
Because the Ebens told us
they'd been visiting Earth
for approximately 2,000 years.
So that brings up a
whole lot of questions
about the religious
aspect of Jesus
and was Jesus a space man?
I don't know that answer.
And I'm not going to
even delve into it.
But that brings
up some questions.
And I don't have those answers.
I don't know.
I don't know that we ever--
they told us that they
visited Earth 2,000 years ago.
In fact, they gave
us the Yellow Book.
The Yellow Book is a
holographic device.
That if you look at it, you have
to be sitting in front of it
to look at it.
And it recorded
the Ebens history,
including Ebens
history of Earth.
Now the ironic part about
this book is if you're German
and you were
looking at it, you'd
hear everything in German.
If I was Russian, I would
hear everything in Russian.
>> Conscious-assisted
technology of some sort.
>> Exactly.
Something like that.
>> Was there anything else
that we learned about ourselves
and our history from this book?
>> Yes.
But the problem is, I don't
know of anyone that actually
was able to get through
the entire history
of the Yellow Book.
The problem with it is I never
saw it and I've never used it.
But the people that have,
including a very good friend
of mine who was able
to look at it and he
sat there for several hours.
If you put it down and pull
it back up, starts all over,
again.
It doesn't read the fact
that you want to start it
and there's no buttons
or anything to push.
So it might be impossible
to sit for 100 days
or whatever it is to look
at the whole history of what
the Ebens have recorded
in his Yellow Book.
So I don't know.
I don't know.
I know other researchers
such as Linda Moulton Howe
have delved into that
more than I've heard of.
But that's all
I've read about it.
IT didn't go into a lot of
details about the Yellow Book.
>> Or our history.
>> No.
>> The commander never said they
spoke about our history or--
>> Only that they'd been
visiting Earth for 2,000 years.
But I don't know that there was
anything brought up about that,
that I could remember.
>> Is it possible when they
came to visit us that they got
into some sort of genetic
mutations or growing of beings
or even hybrids?
>> That's been discussed.
I don't know the
actual answer to that.
My own personal feeling
is it probably did.
I think their mentality--
the Ebens mentality, what
I read out of
these documents, is
that they're going
to do what they
have to do to survive or create
a guarding force or whatever.
Because they had a--
one thing that we
did find out, they
had a battle with
another planet.
Hundreds of thousands
of Ebens were killed.
And they finally made
peace with that planet.
It was in the same solar system.
And they've maintained the
peace with this other planet.
Now--
>> Were they Ebens, too?
>> No.
They were a different race.
But some of those
from the other planet
is what the commander is saying
that they Ebens are cloning.
So they have a safeguard.
They're safeguarding,
just in case.
They're going to do what
they have to do to survive.
Every planet's going to do this.
The problem with our planet--
we have so many different races.
So many different countries.
Their planet, they
have one race--
Ebens.
That's it.
There's no other
races on their planet.
They wouldn't allow any
other races on their planet.
And they wouldn't allow
cross-breeding, either.
That's one of the things
that our scientists
thought about doing.
And either artificially or
not-- and the Ebens said no.
There's no way you're
going to do that.
And we accepted it.
So the Ebens are going
to do what they have
to do to protect themselves.
>> Protect that race.
>> Yeah.
>> What happened to the
Ebens with Project Serpo.
Are they still living
amongst us today?
>> Well, Eben Two, as far
as I know, is still here.
He's still out at Area 51.
Now as of 1991, he was.
Now I don't know
where he's at now.
>> Did they ever
mention their lifespan?
>> They have a long lifespan.
About 700 to 800 years.
Well, we found out that
according to the Ebens time
period, time frame,
they could live
600 or 700 years in Eben time.
Now I don't know if anybody
actually sat down and figured
out what that is in human time.
But they can live a long time.
>> Now with Product
Serpo becoming public,
do you believe this
is a soft disclosure?
>> Well, Serpo became
public a long time ago.
There's been a
lot of controversy
about that ever since.
And one particular Air Force
general said it's hogwash.
Never happened.
Well another government
employee came forth and said,
it happened, but there were
only three astronauts that went.
So there's controversy.
And I think, the DIA placed
the controversy in there
for the disclosure aspect of it.
We don't know.
Was there three
or were there 12?
Did they actually go?
Or was this some
sort of a major plot
to condition the public
for a future disclosure?
There's a lot of questions
about Project Serpo that
has never been answered.
There's a lot of
conjectures here and there.
misinformation here and there,
spread by people writing books
about it that don't really
know the truth.
But the truth, if you go back
and look at the documents,
you're going to be
fascinated by the details
that this commander
put in there.
And some of the things
he's describing,
you can't be here on Earth and
describe some of this stuff
that he's describing.
So even the best
science fiction writer
couldn't write a
Project Serpo book.
>> Right.
>> I mean, this stuff is
as real as it can get.
>> When you were in the basement
reading that document that you
were privy to, did it state
how many astronauts in that
document went?
>> 12.
>> 12
>> 2 women.
>> And to the best
of your knowledge,
that was an official
OSI document.
>> Absolutely.
And the headquarters number.
it was numbered.
Document was-- headquarters.
It was the after-action
report for it.
They had an initial report
that was dated in 1965.
That was preparation report.
It was counterintelligence
operation.
And then the 1980
report was a debrief
and an after-action report.
They came back in
'77, but by the time
they interviewed everybody,
got all their facts,
the report is numbered in 1980.
The first two numbers
of the report is a year.
It's 80, headquarters,
D, 839- I think--
2.
And that's the
number of the report.
>> Where did they
return in 1977?
Where was that meeting spot?
>> Actually, they
came back to Tonopah,
place called a Wellington.
It's an old mining camp on
Tonopah, on a test range.
They have a very secretive--
it's naturally enclosed
like a coliseum
and they landed inside that.
And I'm sure they had safeguards
for satellites and so forth.
And that's where
they landed in 1977.
>> So in your mind, would you
say Project Serpo was a 100%
legitimate program?
>> I wouldn't say 100%.
I'd say, it was probably--
I'd say, 80%.
There's still some questions
about the numbers that weren't.
>> Sure.
>> Even though the official
report said there were 12,
there were other people who were
associated with this that have
since died, but said no, no.
We only sent three.
And there's some other--
some of the equipment
that was taken.
There was conjecture
about, no, no, no, no.
We didn't take that.
We took this.
And in the official report,
they took atomic demolition
munitions with them--
a small atom bomb.
It was just a 1 kiloton.
But they took-- well,
the other guy said, no.
We didn't take any
atom bombs with us.
So--
>> There's a little
bit of back and forth.
>> Yeah, a little
back and forth.
But overall, I think, we
had an exchange program.
How many went?
How many came back?
I don't know.
>> Rick, what a stellar story.
And what an amazing
amount of intelligence
you just offered us
and the audience.
I want to thank you
for coming on the show.
>> Thank you very much.
>> I'm Emery Smith, and
this is "Cosmic Disclosure."
Until next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]